# Chapter 08: Design Processes

## 1. Overview

This chapter covers the following topics:
- [Attack surface](../Notes/Attack-surface.md)
- [Threat modeling](../Notes/Threat-modeling.md)
- Control identification and prioritization (see below).
- Risk Assessment for code reuse (see below).
- Documentation: the purpose is to communicate essential information across the development team.
- Design and architecture technical review: use periodic reviews to ensure the security progress.

## 2. Control identification and Prioritization

This section briefly describes what "security controls" are. In general, they are the means (e.g., ACLs) to achieve security. The key takeaways of this section are:
- If possible, try to utilize the security controls that already exist in the organization in which the application is deployed because:
  - Using existing things avoids duplicated work, thus reduces cost.
  - Aligning the security controls (access control, user authentication, and other security mechanisms) to those that are already employed in the organization reduces the operational security workload and still achieves the desired mitigating actions.
- If possible, try to utilize the existing security mechanisms (e.g., HTTPS, SSH) rather than invent new ones because:
  - The existing mechanisms are well understood and proven effective.
  - Reusing the existing mechanisms reduces development risks and cost.

## 3. Risk Assessment for code reuse

The point is: when old code is reused in a new project, the old code should be subjected to the same security as the new code under development, such as:
- Threat modeling
- Attack surface minimization
- Code reviews
