# Chapter 09: Design Considerations

## 1. Overview

Chapter 8 talks about the process to follow when designing a secure application. This chapter, Chapter 9, focuses on what elements to consider when designing the security aspect of an application.

Simply put, the elements include:
- The [general security concepts](../Notes/General-security-concepts.md).
- The [security design principles](../Notes/Security-design-principles.md)
- Interconnectivity
  - **Session management**: Manage the communication channel to prevent the hijacking of an authorized communication channel by an unauthorized party. For example, HTTPS can protect the channel from being hijacked.
  - **Exception management**: Ensure that there is no confidential information leakage when recording the failures.
  - **Configuration management**: The confidential items (e.g., WiFi password, SSH keys) in the configuration of a system should be secured.
- Interfaces:
  - Applications operate in a larger enterprise environment. It is advantageous to use enterprise resources for the management of security.
  - Design phase needs to determine the level and method of integration with enterprise resources. Logging provides the data (about security), but design needs to plan how this data can be accessed by the security team once the application is in operation.
    - Available methods:
      - Management consoles (TODO)
      - Log interfaces (TODO)
      - In-band management: More simple but is exposed to the same threats as the communication channel itself. Denial of service attacks may result in loss of the ability to control a system.
      - Out-of-band management: Allows management access even when the system is under attack. Disadvantage is the separate, secure communication channels need to be designed and implemented.
